---
layout: post
title:  "KDE Plasma battery indicator on the Thinkpad E14 Gen 2"
description: "Battery indicator kept saying the thing was \"charging\". It wasn't.\nTL;DR: blacklist typec.\nLinux issues are fun to solve."
keywords: thinkpad,linux,battery,E14,E14 Gen 2
date:   2021-07-13 14:35:00 +0200
---

I'm just putting this here so that people that might have similar problems
will hopefully find it. Yeah and to have at least something here on my """blog""".

PS: I documented my journey in [this twitter thread](https://nitter.net/chfourchfour/status/1409550000074412036#m) (nitter link).

# An issue with `typec`

I noticed that if my laptop goes to sleep with the charger plugged in,
after waking up the battery indicator stays stuck on the charging icon.

At first I thought, "I can live with that" but then it started really bugging me.

It also didn't play the charger unplug sound. Everything else said "discharging".

## Trying to solve it

So, I started searching the World Wide Internets for solutions.
Someone said that calibrating their battery solved the issue.

So I tried doing that.

...And it did not do anything.

I found [this](https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/upower/upower/-/issues/126#note_643852), and that was pretty close to what was happening.
They mentioned that switching back to kernel version 5.7 fixes the issue, and that it was caused by the commit that added USB-C power sources.

But I didn't feel like switching to an older kernel, so I just gave up.

## The actual solution

Somehow, I found out that there's a kernel module called `typec`. `lsmod` shows it, along with `typec_ucsi`.
And then it clicked - I recalled reading about "something something `ucsi`".
So I tried blacklisting those modules, and lo and behold: it worked.

So yeah, that's the fix.
The end.
